# Introduce
Avoid coupling the sender of a request to its receiver by giving more than one object a chance to handle to the request. Chain the receiving objects and pass the request along the chain until an object handles it.
-- Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software
# Contents

## Motivation

In writing an application of any kind, it often happens that the event generated by one object needs to be handled by another one. And, to make our work even harder, we also happen to be denied access to the object which needs to handle the event. In this case there are two possibilities: there is the beginner/lazy approach of making everything public, creating reference to every object and continuing from there and then there is the expert approach of using the Chain of Responsibility.

The Chain of Responsibility design pattern allows an object to send a command without knowing what object will receive and handle it. The request is sent from one object to another making them parts of a chain and each object in this chain can handle the command, pass it on or do both. The most usual example of a machine using the Chain of Responsibility is the vending machine coin slot: rather than having a slot for each type of coin, the machine has only one slot for all of them. The dropped coin is routed to the appropriate storage place that is determined by the receiver of the command.

Intent:
It avoids attaching the sender of a request to its receiver, giving this way other objects the possibility of handling the request too.
The objects become parts of a chain and the request is sent from one object to another across the chain until one of the objects will handle it.

## Hot points

The fundamental flaw of the pattern is the fact that it gets easily broken: if the programmer forgets to call the next handler in the concreteHandler the request gets lost on the way. This problem comes from the fact that the execution is not handled entirely by the superclass and the call is triggered in the superclass.
When implementing the CoR pattern a special care should be taken for the request representation. The request is not considered a distinctive part of the CoR pattern, but it is still used in all the components of the pattern.
Another flaw of the Chain of Responsibility is the fact that some requests may end up unhandled due to the wrong implementation of concrete handler, their propagation slowing down the rest of the application. This means that extra care is needed when taking into account the requests that may appear in the process.
